2006 Fall Pledge Class Namesake
Last Updated: 11:52 am Aug 10, 2006
This year's Fall Pledge Class Namesake is Katie Farrell Westlake.
The Fall 2006 Pledge Class Namesake Honoree is not someone many have heard of before, but her path is typical of many Brothers. Her involvement with Alpha Phi Omega since graduation has been minimal, yet her impact, both on the Fraternity and beyond, has been impressive. Kate Farrell Westlake joined Alpha Phi Omega as an affiliate member in the winter of 1975 at the University of Michigan, Gamma Pi Chapter. She was in Atlanta, Georgia at the 1976 National Convention when women were granted full membership and became one of the first nine women officially recognized as Brothers. Kate distinguished herself at Gamma Pi, serving as president for two years and receiving the Chapter Distinguished Service Key. She is also a Life Member of the Fraternity. Kate earned a Bachelor of Science in Engineering from the University of Michigan in 1978.

Since graduating from Michigan, Kate has kept service to others a mainstay in her life. She accepted a position at Western Electric that required relocating to the Chicago area. Not knowing any Brothers there, she quickly volunteered to lead a Junior Girl Scout troop. In her spare time, Kate earned a Masters of Management from Northwestern University. She has been a Girl Scout Leader and volunteer for 20 years, and has filled various roles with the Boy Scouts, aiding and inspiring 13 youths to achieve the highest honor in their respective scouting organizations. Kate has also led workshops to help scouts earn a total of more than 200 religious medals.

Kate developed and ran an after-school enrichment program for children in kindergarten through eighth grade. She recruited teachers, compiled course descriptions and registered students for classes. In addition, she started and continues to run a parish-wide ongoing service club called Helping Hands. Her desire to plan and ability to organize these activities to broaden the horizons of youth have inspired others to become similarly involved.

Kate has helped the Omicron Chapter at the University of Iowa with their two biggest events - Girl Scout University and Merit Badge University. These two annual events usually draw more than 1,500 scouts. Kate taught badge classes and provided other assistance, in addition to encouraging troops to make the pilgrimage from the Chicago area to Iowa City for these programs. For her efforts, Kate was recognized as Omicron's Spring 2006 Pledge Class Namesake.

Kate has received the highest national Girl Scout award for Catholic women, the St. Anne Medal, for her service to youth. For her contributions to her parish community, she was also named 2005 St. Emily Catholic Woman of the Year.

While much of Kate's service is outside the bounds of Alpha Phi Omega, she has always remembered the Fraternity in her efforts. It is quite telling that APO is truly a family tradition. She met her husband of 25 years, Ken (Beta Beta Chapter), at an APO sectional conference. Her two brothers are Alpha Phi Omega alumni. The couple has three children - Beth (21), who is studying Industrial Engineering at the University of Iowa (Omicron Chapter); David (19), who is in his second year at Michigan State (Beta Beta Chapter), majoring in International Relations and Economics; and, Stephen (17), who is a high school senior. Both Beth and David pledged in the fall of their first year on campus and consider themselves avid APOers. Stephen looks forward to college and the opportunity to join Alpha Phi Omega as well.

Kate is currently employed as an Industrial Engineer at Sonoscan, a small international company that manufactures ultrasonic test equipment for the electronics industry. She is the president of SAGA, a national sewing organization. The Westlakes reside in Mount Prospect, Illinois.

While it is always our desire to keep alumni active within Alpha Phi Omega, our ultimate goal is to keep the Cardinal Principles of Alpha Phi Omega working to make the world a better place. Kate Farrell Westlake sets examples for Leadership, Friendship and Service to others we all should strive to attain.
